


Hello Everyone!

I hope you are enjoying your Labor Day weekend!  As this is the first course I have ever taught and I didn't even have access to Canvas until classes had already began, I have been busy in the background learning how to use canvas and getting our course setup for the rest of the semester.  Now those changes are complete, and we can all go forward together prepared and knowing what's to come in our class together.


First and most importantly, we are going to need alot more time in the lab to complete our assignments and projects without the need for students going to the open labs at Fort Bragg High School or Mendocino College Coast Center.  To this end, I will now recording all lectures 1 week ahead of schedule which will be accompanied by a short quiz due before the first day of class each week. Normally this will mean that the next weeks lecture will be released on monday, and the quiz will be due by midnight sunday.  This week is alittle different because of the 3-day weekend.  So tomorrow we will have one of our last in-class lectures for week 4, while week 5's lecture will also be released.

Due to labor day weekend and the in-class lecture, assignment #3 will be due next monday (the 12th), and assignment #4 will be due next thursday (the 15th).

The new course outline has been uploaded and is in Week 1's module.  

The Grading System in the Syllabus has been updated, and can be found in Week 1's module as well.

I have added a Midterm Project where we will create a web portfolio to display for you to display your work.

Discussions for each week will now consist of two parts.  Part 1 will consist of reading articles or watching videos, and commenting to the class anything you found interesting, or asking about anything you did not understand.  Part 2 will consist of choosing a topic from a list, researching the topic, and writing about what you learned to your fellow classmates.  You must reply to two of your classmates posts by either answering their questions, expanding upon their ideas, or adding something to the discussion (not just "I agree", etc).  You must use proper spelling and grammer, write in complete sentances, and have a minimum of 100 words.

We will be coming back to Adobe Bridge in Week 13 for Adobe Camera Raw and Lightroom.  So if you want to use Adobe Bridge, please go ahead and download it and begin using it (https://www.adobe.com/products/bridge.html).   Just let me know if you have any questions about using Bridge.